# The Adventure to Oevyli
We start our journey with a reason. Getting to know our tools. As Hoare once said
"In all spheres of human intellectual and practical activity, from carpentry to golf,
from sculpture to space travel, the true craftsman is the one who thoroughly understands
his tools" [1].

The projects aim is to compile AI program into efficient CPU/GPU code. It contains a
frontend which can generate both `OIL - Oevyli Intermediate Language` and `LLVM-IR`.
The backend generate machine code and optimize for fast operations. When implementing the
compiler, I put lot of effort to make a very fast compiler.

# Implementation of the Frontend
## Scanner
Scanner converts the input, a stream of characters to stream of workds, in the form of
`(p, s)`. String with actual spelling of the word stored in a hash table. We uses a hand
coded scanner for our compiler. Why? because it's fun to write.

Consider follwing Oevyli program that perform matrix addition.
```python
# Matrix addition

fn add_two_matrices(a, b):
  return a + b

fn main():
  # Define two matrices in the shape of 1024x1024
  a = randn((1024, 1024))
  b = randn((1024, 1024))
  c = add_two_matrices(a, b)

  # Print the value
  print c
```

The scanner should output tokens. Tokens something similar to following list.
```hs
<'fn', FUNCTION>
<'a', VARIABLE>
<'3', NUMBER>
```

In our scanner we use double buffer technique for scanning. It generates the tokens and
other information about the token (i.e line number).


## Parser
Parser is a program that takes tokens generated by scanner and check whether the arrangement
of such tokens fulfils the constraints given by formal grammer.


# References
1. http://web.eecs.umich.edu/~bchandra/courses/papers/Hoare_Hints.pdf
2. https://triton-lang.org/master/index.html